Yes, these are absolutely perfect! They are incredibly clear and provide the complete continuation of the article.

Thanks to these screenshots, I can correct a couple of guesses I made from the blurry PDF (for example, he used "eyeballing" instead of "unreadable," and he has 70 acres, not 35).

Here is the complete and accurate transcription of the article's continuation from Page S1:

Malloy
Continued from Page S1

Doug laughed at that, saying he began by just eyeballing all measurements. “I never used a tape measure. In one room, the wall on one side is a full foot longer than the one on the other,” he said.

He also was quick to explain that he didn’t really know what he was doing when he began building his home in the late 1960s. Malloy was a chemical engineer, working in plastics in Michigan. But after taking a leave of absence from his engineering job, he visited Maine and never went back.

“I didn’t know a thing about construction,” he said. Malloy, however, is a smart guy and a quick learner. He confidently started constructing a small cedar log cabin, using only materials from his 70 acres.

He quickly discovered he wasn’t really alone in his woods. Malloy had a squatter, a middle-aged man who was a bit down on his luck and took up residence at the head of the driveway.

“Old Joe would show up each year and tell me, ‘I haven’t really gotten it together, Doug. Can I spend the winter here?’ and he lived in the old trailer down by the road,” Malloy said. Old Joe would come to Malloy and say the same thing each year and every year Malloy would invite him to stay. He ended up sharing Malloy’s land for 25 years. “He was my gatekeeper,” Malloy said.

The two men forged an easy, quiet friendship.

Old Joe would sit and mostly just watch Malloy work. Every so often, though, the squatter would make a comment such as “If a man wanted to, he could … ,” followed by a bit of construction advice.

“Of course, his way was the right way,” Malloy admitted. In this gentle manner, Old Joe imparted his knowledge to the rookie woodsman until he passed away five years ago.

Over the past four decades, Malloy imagined and dreamed, built and built, swooped and swirled until the home now stands four stories and includes a sunken greenhouse, three outbuildings, a workshop, a sap house, and — a tranquil walk through the woods reveals — a summer house on a Doug-built pond, complete with sauna and dock for swimming.

He shares the home with his son, Ian Malloy, 22, who attends Thomas College and recently spent his spring break nailing shakes on one of the house’s roofs.

“This is my little art form. If I kept track of the hours that it takes me, I wouldn't want to do it,” Malloy admitted. “The nice thing about this little log and stone house is that I have spent lots and lots of time in its creation but relatively little money.”

When asked if his construction is rooted in environmentalism or is because he is a cheap Scotsman, Malloy laughed. “Hmmm,” he said. “That’s a good question.

“I do believe in treading lightly on the earth,” he said. “I practice that in the way that I harvest. I have become so attached to these trees in the past 30 years that it sometimes becomes too hard to cut them down. It is a very good thing when one falls or is blown down.” Malloy carefully manages his forest, saying, “When I leave this place, I will leave the good wood for somebody else.”

“The rest of the world has passed this by,” he said of the way he has turned scrap wood, leftovers and others’ discards into his artistic home. “I feel good when I can use wood such as old telephone poles for wood shakes. The whole house comes from the land.”

“The nice thing about wood is that it naturally grows into shapes,” Malloy said. “I always build, whether it is the house or my furniture, by following what the wood suggests. It tells me by its shape if it is a chair, a window, whatever. Cedar is the best. It curves and sweeps and it’s rugged.”

Making his one-of-a-kind door latches has become almost a game. Some are simple cherry wood burls while others are a foot tall and complicated. “I take this little joy each morning in operating one of the latches,” he said.

“People really take pleasure in seeing how things work,” Malloy said. “As more and more of the ability to fix things ourselves is taken away from us, we lose something as a culture, as a society.”

Semiretired these days, he works half-time as a science teacher at Madison High School and spends the rest of his time in his workshop creating custom furniture from branches, burls, roots and slabs. “Many people come to Maine with a vision of the Maine wilderness and my furniture fits that vision perfectly,” he said.

But mostly, he continues to work on the house. His latest venture is to create a slow, gentle curve of the roof of the main, original cabin. Sweeping his hand through the air to illustrate, Malloy said, “It will be lovely.”

For more information on his handmade Found Wood Furniture, Malloy can be reached at 654-2692